beneath the cold waves of Lake Michigan
rests an aging shipwreck is wooden
planks encrusted with brown and gray
zebra mussels and may be the remnants of
a 17th century ship called the Griffin
French explorer Rene Robert cavalier CR
de la Salle built the Griffin in 1679
but it was lost in Lake Michigan the
same year
in 2011 Michigan based treasure hunters
Kevin Dijkstra and Frederick Monroe
found a shipwreck as they were searching
for the two million in gold that
according to local legend fell from a
ferry crossing Lake Michigan in the
1800s
their sonar caught a mass below and
Dijkstra douve into the water to take
video I didn't go down there with the
expectation of seeing a shipwreck I can
tell you that when he and Munroe later
reviewed the video they realized it
might be the lost Griffin
but other experts aren't convinced that
the wreck is the Griffon rather it may
be the remnants of a tugboat that was
scrapped after steam engines became more
economical to operate the Rex
discoverers agreed that more evidence is
needed state archaeologists reviewed the
footage and they've been very diligent
to say this is really interesting these
are some neat pictures Dijkstra said can
we call this the Gryphon certainly not
not without a lot more information but
these are very compelling with this
latest finding made popular again by
wreck diving magazine it holds a number
of clues about the ship's past there was
no rudder on the boat Dijkstra said that
was kind of telling us that the ship
probably weathered a storm otherwise
there would probably be a rudder on it
they also found a part of the ship that
they said could be a mussel covered
Creek Griffin and myth mythical beasts
carved onto the ship's bow on a
subsequent dive deep struts hook a
magnet with him to help determine the
metal composition of the ship
unexpectedly a nail attached itself to a
magnet and the treasure hunters only
discovered it later once they were above
water when we had looked at it the
archaeologists could tell that the nail
was very old
Dijkstra said it was a hand forged nail
which helped state it back to the time
period
you